Biochemistry Lab  –  CHEM 315 –   Spring 2020
Course Syllabus

Pre-Lab Discussion (Required): Monday 4:00 – 4:50 PM                        	Location: Schaap 3103
Lab: Thursday 8:00 – 12:50 AM                                                                  		Location: Schaap 3037

Instructor: Dr. Mike Pikaart (pikaart@hope.edu;  Science Center room 3061)

Required course resources
1) Unused, ruled lab notebook, pen and permanent marker
2) Safety glasses
3) Moodle course website – used for course communication, please check this regularly
4) Access to Biochemistry Lab Google Drive folder

Course description and objectives
Welcome to Biochemistry Lab! In this lab, teams of 2-3 students will learn and apply biochemical lab techniques to explore the structure and function of  currently uncharacterized  protein. Techniques learned include protein expression, purification and analysis, kinetics, and computational methods to investigate protein structure and ligand binding.

Student responsibilities
1. Attend pre-lab discussion and lab. Your attendance at pre-lab discussion and the lab is expected and necessary for success in this course. Please arrive on time. If you are unable to attend class due to illness or other personal matters, please e-mail me as soon as possible.

2. Lab safety. Student safety is the highest priority. You will be made aware of any biological or chemical hazards prior to experimentation. Standard lab practices must be followed. This includes: no eating or drinking in lab, wearing safety glasses at all time in the lab, wearing gloves when performing experiments (gloves may not be worn when touching personal computers), and long pants and shoes are required. If you ever have ANY safety questions, ask!

3. Complete required assignments on time. Your lab partners are relying on you.  

4. Read and complete assigned materials prior to coming to discussion and lab.

5. Participate and be attentive. Students should participate by actively following discussion through note taking, speaking aloud in class, and contributing to group work. As a part of participation and being attentive, when you're in the lab, use your electronic resources for lab purposes.  

6. Check Moodle frequently. You are responsible for the content posted to Moodle.  Check it often.

7. Complete your own best work. All students are expected to adhere to the Code for Academic
Integrity  at  Hope  College. While collaborative in nature, I expect that all work you produce for the course will be your own.

My responsibilities to YOU:  You are a valued member of this class and, more importantly, a cherished child of God.  As your instructor for this semester, my first goal is to treat you in a way that reflects that.  I can't promise you I'll succeed at that goal (in fact, I can pretty much promise you I'll mess up).  But… whatever your race, faith, sexual orientation, disability, politics or economic background, I can promise you I'll listen to and take seriously any concern you might run into in terms of how you're treated in this class or on this campus.  Finally, regarding disabilities, I am happy to work Hope's wonderful staff in the Office of Disability Services and the Academic Support Center regarding any special accommodations or equipment needs necessary to complete the requirements for this course.  If you are going to need such accommodation, please register documentation with those offices or by contacting the Student Development office.  Let's have a great lab!




Grading:






 

Schedule
This  schedule  only serves  as  an  outline  of  the  course and is subject to change.  Moodle  will  be  used  to  describe  topics,  additional assignments and deadlines in detail. Please check Moodle frequently!
